README.md, before:

# Cinema Ticketing System

This is a **Django-based event ticketing system** that allows users to view events, select tickets, and make payments using several different payment gateways. 
The project tracks available seats for each event, handles ticket purchases, and integrates with `django-payments` for seamless payment processing.

## 🚀 Features

- **Event Management**: Create, update, and display events with customizable seat limits and price classes.
- **Ticketing**: Dynamically assign unique seat numbers to tickets and track their availability.
- **Payments**: Secure Stripe integration for handling payments via `django-payments`.
- **UUIDs for Tickets**: Non-obvious unique ticket identifiers for security.
- **Admin Dashboard**: Group tickets by event and manage them in the Django Admin panel.

## 🧰 Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Django 4.x
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS (basic templates)
- **Payment Integration**: Stripe via `django-payments`
- **Database**: SQLite (default, configurable for other DBs)
- **Human Identification**: ReCAPTCHA via `django-reCAPTCHA`

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### 1. Set Up a Virtual Environment

```bash
python -m venv event_venv
source event_venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: event_venv\Scripts\activate
```

Use for example [direnv](https://direnv.net/) for automatic environment activation.
Here is an example `.envrc` file for this project:

```bash
source bin/activate

set -a && . cinema_ticketing/code/cinema_tickets/.env && set +a

export FLOWER_BASIC_AUTH="${FLOWER_USERNAME}:${FLOWER_PASSWORD}"
```

### 2. Clone the Repository

```bash
cd event_venv
git clone https://github.com/Kreolis/cinema_ticketing
cd cinema_ticketing
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install rabbitmq:

```bash
sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server
yay -S rabbitmq
```

After that start the rabbitmq server:

```bash
sudo systemctl start rabbitmq
```

Dont forget to setup rabbitmq and create a user for it:

```bash
sudo rabbitmqctl add_user yourusername yourpassword
sudo rabbitmqctl add_vhost yourvhost
sudo rabbitmqctl set_user_tags yourusername yourtag
sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p myvhost yourusername ".*" ".*" ".*"
```

Please also follow the instructions in the [Celery documentation](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/getting-started/backends-and-brokers/rabbitmq.html#broker-rabbitmq) to set up RabbitMQ with Django.

### 4. Set Up the `.env` File

```bash
cd code
```

Create a `.env` file in the `code/cinema_tickets` folder by copying the `template.env` and add at least replace `YourDjangoSecretKey` with a secret key for Django.

To be able to send emails add

```bash
  EMAIL_HOST=localhost
  EMAIL_PORT=587
  EMAIL_USE_TLS=True
  EMAIL_HOST_USER=your-email@example.com
  EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=your-email-password
  DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
```

If you want to use the Stripe payment gateway, add your Stripe keys:

```bash
  USE_STRIPE=True
  STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=your-stripe-secret-key
  STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY=your-stripe-public-key
  STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_test_secret
```

For ReCAPTCHA support add `YourMyRecaptchaKey` / `YourRecaptchaPrivateKey`. 

If you want to use a postgres database set `USE_POSTGRES` to `True` and add the following variables:

```bash
  POSTGRES_DB=your-db-name
  POSTGRES_USER=your-db-user
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your-db-password
  POSTGRES_HOST=your-db-host
  POSTGRES_PORT=your-db-port
```

Depening on your setup you might also want to change the `CELERY_BROKER_URL` and `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND` variables to match your RabbitMQ configuration.

```bash
  CELERY_BROKER_URL='amqp://yourusername:yourpassword@localhost:5672/yourvhost'
  CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND='django-db'
```

### 5. Apply Migrations

```bash
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py create_groups
```

### 6. Run the Development Server

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

For periodic tasks, run the Celery worker in a separate terminal:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets worker --loglevel=info
```

Make sure that RabbitMQ is running before starting the Celery worker.

---

## 📄 Usage

### Accessing the Site

- Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.
- View the list of upcoming events on the homepage.
- Click an event to select tickets and proceed to payment.

### Admin Panel

- Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/` to manage events, tickets, and payments.
- Create a superuser with:
  
  ```bash
  python manage.py createsuperuser
  ```

### Payment Flow

1. Select tickets for an event.
2. Enter payment details on the checkout page.
3. On successful payment, you will be redirected to a confirmation page.

### 🏢 Deployment with Nginx

To deploy this project with Nginx, follow these steps:

#### Set Up uWSGI

Install [uWSGI](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/UWSGI) and create a folder named `vassals` under `/etc/uwsgi`.
Create a file called `cinema_ticketing.ini` inside the `vassals` folder.

```ini
[uwsgi]
project = cinema_ticketing
uid = www-data # or nginx (the user that governs your websites)
base = /path/to/your/cinema_ticketing_folder

chdir = %(base)/%(project)
home = %(base)/event_venv
module = %(project).wsgi:application

master = true
processes = 5

socket = /run/uwsgi/%(project).sock
chown-socket = www-data:www-data # or nginx (the user that governs your websites)
chmod-socket = 660
vacuum = true

daemonize = /var/log/uwsgi/%(project).log
```

Enable and start the uWSGI emperor service to start serving the side.

```bash
systemctl enable emperor.uwsgi.service
systemctl start emperor.uwsgi.service
```

#### Manage Translation and Static

If you want to translate your application to a different language or want to modify the strings used in this website you have to generate a new translation locale with rosetta. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
django-admin makemessages -l <language_code>
```

Do not forget to compile your translations:

```bash
python manage.py compilemessages
```

Make sure to collect your static files like .css so that your website is properly styled. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
python manage.py collectstatic
```

#### Configure Nginx

Install Nginx and create a new configuration file for your project in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/` named `cinema_ticketing`.

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your_domain_or_IP;

    location = /favicon.ico { access_log off; log_not_found off; }
    location /static/ {
        root /path/to/your/cinema_ticketing_folder;
    }

    location / {
        include         uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass      unix:/run/uwsgi/cinema_ticketing.sock;
    }

    error_log /var/log/nginx/cinema_ticketing_error.log;
    access_log /var/log/nginx/cinema_ticketing_access.log;
}
```

Enable the configuration by creating a symbolic link to it in the `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/` directory.

```bash
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cinema_ticketing /etc/nginx/sites-enabled
```

Test the Nginx configuration and restart the service.

```bash
sudo nginx -t
sudo systemctl restart nginx
```

### Configure Celery and RabbitMQ

Make sure RabbitMQ is installed and running on your server. You can check its status with:

```bash
sudo systemctl status rabbitmq-server
```

Run Celery worker in the background to handle asynchronous tasks with periodic tasks enabled:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets worker --beat --loglevel=info --detach
```

To easy opartions and enable automatic restarts of the celery worker you can use the management command provided in this project. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
python manage.py celery
```

This will automatically run the server and the celery worker with the correct log level based on the `DEBUG` setting in your `.env` file. It will also kill any existing celery processes before starting new ones.

You can check the celery status with flower. Start flower in the background in a separate terminal:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets flower --port=5555
```

#### Test the Deployment

Visit your server's IP address or domain in your browser to ensure the application is running correctly.

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

- **Stripe Keys Not Working**: Ensure they are correctly set in the `.env` file.
- **Migrations Fail**: Delete the `db.sqlite3` file and the `migrations` folder in your app, then re-run:

  ```bash
  python manage.py makemigrations
  python manage.py migrate
  ```

- **Database Tables are missing**: Create migrations explicitly for the app:

  ```bash
  python manage.py makemigrations events
  python manage.py migrate events
  ```

- **Branding object makemigrations OperationalError**: Make sure the branding object is_active is set to FALSE and try again

---

## 💡 Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
3. Submit a pull request with a detailed description.

### 📝 To-Do List

Version 2:

- [ ] Add user authentication for ticket buyers.
- [ ] Add support for refunds or cancellations.
- [ ] global event picture generation from name
- [ ] custom event picture per event
- [ ] language toggle with redirect to current page
- [ ] Order ticket count shown in menu
- [ ] Use shorter ids for urls and names
- [ ] location and price import
- [ ] make setting upload with csv
- [ ] Branding Logo
- [ ] Branding Page Name

Nice to have:

- [ ] location based ticket manager
- [ ] admin stays logged in forever

### 👨‍💼 Main Contributors

- **Kreolis** - Lead Developer ([GitHub](https://github.com/kreolis))

### 🙇 Buy Me a Coffee

If you found this project helpful, consider supporting us:
[Buy Me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/kreolis)

---

## Contact

For any questions or issues, please email: `info@kreolis.net`.
🙇 Buy Me a Coffee


---

## ⚠️ License

This project is licensed under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE). Feel free to use and modify it as needed.

### GNU GPLv3

Permissions of this strong copyleft license are conditioned on making available complete source code of licensed works and modifications, which include larger works using a licensed work, under the same license. Copyright and license notices must be preserved. Contributors provide an express grant of patent rights. 
Closed code distributions are not allowed with this license.

Commit message:

added more info about flower usage

README.md, after:

# Cinema Ticketing System

This is a **Django-based event ticketing system** that allows users to view events, select tickets, and make payments using several different payment gateways. 
The project tracks available seats for each event, handles ticket purchases, and integrates with `django-payments` for seamless payment processing.

## 🚀 Features

- **Event Management**: Create, update, and display events with customizable seat limits and price classes.
- **Ticketing**: Dynamically assign unique seat numbers to tickets and track their availability.
- **Payments**: Secure Stripe integration for handling payments via `django-payments`.
- **UUIDs for Tickets**: Non-obvious unique ticket identifiers for security.
- **Admin Dashboard**: Group tickets by event and manage them in the Django Admin panel.

## 🧰 Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Django 4.x
- **Frontend**: HTML, CSS (basic templates)
- **Payment Integration**: Stripe via `django-payments`
- **Database**: SQLite (default, configurable for other DBs)
- **Human Identification**: ReCAPTCHA via `django-reCAPTCHA`

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### 1. Set Up a Virtual Environment

```bash
python -m venv event_venv
source event_venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: event_venv\Scripts\activate
```

Use for example [direnv](https://direnv.net/) for automatic environment activation.
Here is an example `.envrc` file for this project:

```bash
source bin/activate

set -a && . cinema_ticketing/code/cinema_tickets/.env && set +a

export FLOWER_BASIC_AUTH="${FLOWER_USERNAME}:${FLOWER_PASSWORD}"
```

### 2. Clone the Repository

```bash
cd event_venv
git clone https://github.com/Kreolis/cinema_ticketing
cd cinema_ticketing
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install rabbitmq:

```bash
sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server
yay -S rabbitmq
```

After that start and enable the rabbitmq server:

```bash
sudo systemctl start rabbitmq
sudo systemctl enable rabbitmq
```

Dont forget to setup rabbitmq and create a user for it:

```bash
sudo rabbitmqctl add_user yourusername yourpassword
sudo rabbitmqctl add_vhost yourvhost
sudo rabbitmqctl set_user_tags yourusername yourtag
sudo rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p myvhost yourusername ".*" ".*" ".*"
```

Please also follow the instructions in the [Celery documentation](https://docs.celeryq.dev/en/stable/getting-started/backends-and-brokers/rabbitmq.html#broker-rabbitmq) to set up RabbitMQ with Django.

### 4. Set Up the `.env` File

```bash
cd code
```

Create a `.env` file in the `code/cinema_tickets` folder by copying the `template.env` and add at least replace `YourDjangoSecretKey` with a secret key for Django.

To be able to send emails add

```bash
  EMAIL_HOST=localhost
  EMAIL_PORT=587
  EMAIL_USE_TLS=True
  EMAIL_HOST_USER=your-email@example.com
  EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=your-email-password
  DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
```

If you want to use the Stripe payment gateway, add your Stripe keys:

```bash
  USE_STRIPE=True
  STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=your-stripe-secret-key
  STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY=your-stripe-public-key
  STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_test_secret
```

For ReCAPTCHA support add `YourMyRecaptchaKey` / `YourRecaptchaPrivateKey`. 

If you want to use a postgres database set `USE_POSTGRES` to `True` and add the following variables:

```bash
  POSTGRES_DB=your-db-name
  POSTGRES_USER=your-db-user
  POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your-db-password
  POSTGRES_HOST=your-db-host
  POSTGRES_PORT=your-db-port
```

Depening on your setup you might also want to change the `CELERY_BROKER_URL` and `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND` variables to match your RabbitMQ configuration.

```bash
  CELERY_BROKER_URL='amqp://yourusername:yourpassword@localhost:5672/yourvhost'
  CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND='django-db'
```

Additionally, add flower credentials for monitoring celery tasks:

```bash
  FLOWER_USERNAME='your-flower-username'
  FLOWER_PASSWORD='your-flower-password'
```

### 5. Apply Migrations

```bash
python manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py create_groups
```

### 6. Run the Development Server

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

For periodic tasks, run the Celery worker in a separate terminal:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets worker --loglevel=info
```

Make sure that RabbitMQ is running before starting the Celery worker.

---

## 📄 Usage

### Accessing the Site

- Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.
- View the list of upcoming events on the homepage.
- Click an event to select tickets and proceed to payment.

### Admin Panel

- Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/` to manage events, tickets, and payments.
- Create a superuser with:
  
  ```bash
  python manage.py createsuperuser
  ```

### Payment Flow

1. Select tickets for an event.
2. Enter payment details on the checkout page.
3. On successful payment, you will be redirected to a confirmation page.

### 🏢 Deployment with Nginx

To deploy this project with Nginx, follow these steps:

#### Set Up uWSGI

Install [uWSGI](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/UWSGI) and create a folder named `vassals` under `/etc/uwsgi`.
Create a file called `cinema_ticketing.ini` inside the `vassals` folder.

```ini
[uwsgi]
project = cinema_ticketing
uid = www-data # or nginx (the user that governs your websites)
base = /path/to/your/cinema_ticketing_folder

chdir = %(base)/%(project)
home = %(base)/event_venv
module = %(project).wsgi:application

master = true
processes = 5

socket = /run/uwsgi/%(project).sock
chown-socket = www-data:www-data # or nginx (the user that governs your websites)
chmod-socket = 660
vacuum = true

daemonize = /var/log/uwsgi/%(project).log
```

Enable and start the uWSGI emperor service to start serving the side.

```bash
systemctl enable emperor.uwsgi.service
systemctl start emperor.uwsgi.service
```

#### Manage Translation and Static

If you want to translate your application to a different language or want to modify the strings used in this website you have to generate a new translation locale with rosetta. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
django-admin makemessages -l <language_code>
```

Do not forget to compile your translations:

```bash
python manage.py compilemessages
```

Make sure to collect your static files like .css so that your website is properly styled. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
python manage.py collectstatic
```

#### Configure Nginx

Install Nginx and create a new configuration file for your project in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/` named `cinema_ticketing`.

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your_domain_or_IP;

    location = /favicon.ico { access_log off; log_not_found off; }
    location /static/ {
        root /path/to/your/cinema_ticketing_folder;
    }

    location / {
        include         uwsgi_params;
        uwsgi_pass      unix:/run/uwsgi/cinema_ticketing.sock;
    }

    error_log /var/log/nginx/cinema_ticketing_error.log;
    access_log /var/log/nginx/cinema_ticketing_access.log;
}
```

To add flower support add the following to your nginx configuration:

```nginx
    location /flower/ {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:5555/;
    }
```

Enable the configuration by creating a symbolic link to it in the `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/` directory.

```bash
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cinema_ticketing /etc/nginx/sites-enabled
```

Test the Nginx configuration and restart the service.

```bash
sudo nginx -t
sudo systemctl restart nginx
```

### Configure Celery and RabbitMQ

Make sure RabbitMQ is installed and running on your server. You can check its status with:

```bash
sudo systemctl status rabbitmq-server
```

Run Celery worker in the background to handle asynchronous tasks with periodic tasks enabled:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets worker --beat --loglevel=info --detach
```

To easy opartions and enable automatic restarts of the celery worker you can use the management command provided in this project. Run this in your `cinema_ticketing` application folder.

```bash
python manage.py celery
```

This will automatically run the server and the celery worker with the correct log level based on the `DEBUG` setting in your `.env` file. It will also kill any existing celery processes before starting new ones.

You can check the celery status with flower. Start flower in the background in a separate terminal:

```bash
celery -A cinema_tickets flower --port=5555
```

#### Test the Deployment

Visit your server's IP address or domain in your browser to ensure the application is running correctly.

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

- **Stripe Keys Not Working**: Ensure they are correctly set in the `.env` file.
- **Migrations Fail**: Delete the `db.sqlite3` file and the `migrations` folder in your app, then re-run:

  ```bash
  python manage.py makemigrations
  python manage.py migrate
  ```

- **Database Tables are missing**: Create migrations explicitly for the app:

  ```bash
  python manage.py makemigrations events
  python manage.py migrate events
  ```

- **Branding object makemigrations OperationalError**: Make sure the branding object is_active is set to FALSE and try again

---

## 💡 Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! To contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
3. Submit a pull request with a detailed description.

### 📝 To-Do List

Version 2:

- [ ] Add user authentication for ticket buyers.
- [ ] Add support for refunds or cancellations.
- [ ] global event picture generation from name
- [ ] custom event picture per event
- [ ] language toggle with redirect to current page
- [ ] Order ticket count shown in menu
- [ ] Use shorter ids for urls and names
- [ ] location and price import
- [ ] make setting upload with csv
- [ ] Branding Logo
- [ ] Branding Page Name

Nice to have:

- [ ] location based ticket manager
- [ ] admin stays logged in forever

### 👨‍💼 Main Contributors

- **Kreolis** - Lead Developer ([GitHub](https://github.com/kreolis))

### 🙇 Buy Me a Coffee

If you found this project helpful, consider supporting us:
[Buy Me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/kreolis)

---

## Contact

For any questions or issues, please email: `info@kreolis.net`.
🙇 Buy Me a Coffee


---

## ⚠️ License

This project is licensed under the [GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE). Feel free to use and modify it as needed.

### GNU GPLv3

Permissions of this strong copyleft license are conditioned on making available complete source code of licensed works and modifications, which include larger works using a licensed work, under the same license. Copyright and license notices must be preserved. Contributors provide an express grant of patent rights. 
Closed code distributions are not allowed with this license.
